meetings/2024/12/19-telecom.md, before:

# December 2024 Virtual Meeting

The Private Advertising Technology Working Group's meeting will be meeting one days for 3 hours.

NOTE: Day 1 of the meeting is going to be the PATCG meeting; see [PATCG Meeting](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/12/17-telecon/README.md).

## Schedule

### Day 1 Start (PATCG)

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 01:00 (01 AM) | 18 Wed | Sydney        |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 17 Tue | Tokyo         |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 17 Tue | Brussels      |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 17 Tue | London        |
| 09:00 (09 AM) | 17 Tue | Boston        |
| 06:00 (06 AM) | 17 Tue | Seattle       |

### Day 1 Start (PATWG)

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 01:00 (01 AM) | 20 Fri | Sydney        |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 19 Thu | Tokyo         |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 19 Thu | Brussels      |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 19 Thu | London        |
| 09:00 (09 AM) | 19 Thu | Boston        |
| 06:00 (06 AM) | 19 Thu | Seattle       |

[See](https://github.com/w3c/patwg/issues/1)

Since this is a joint meeting of the WG and CG we will keep the agenda at the CG for this meeting. 

[You can find that agenda here](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2024/12/17-telecon).

Commit message:

Add link to PAT Calendar
Zoom info available via PAT Calendar.

meetings/2024/12/19-telecom.md, after:

# December 2024 Virtual Meeting

The Private Advertising Technology Working Group's meeting will be meeting one day for 3 hours.

NOTE: Day 1 of the meeting is going to be the PATCG meeting; see [PATCG Meeting](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/blob/main/2024/12/17-telecon/README.md).

## Schedule

### Day 1 Start (PATCG)

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 01:00 (01 AM) | 18 Wed | Sydney        |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 17 Tue | Tokyo         |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 17 Tue | Brussels      |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 17 Tue | London        |
| 09:00 (09 AM) | 17 Tue | Boston        |
| 06:00 (06 AM) | 17 Tue | Seattle       |

### Day 1 Start (PATWG)

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 01:00 (01 AM) | 20 Fri | Sydney        |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 19 Thu | Tokyo         |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 19 Thu | Brussels      |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 19 Thu | London        |
| 09:00 (09 AM) | 19 Thu | Boston        |
| 06:00 (06 AM) | 19 Thu | Seattle       |

[See](https://github.com/w3c/patwg/issues/1)

Since this is a joint meeting of the WG and CG we will keep the agenda at the CG for this meeting. 

[You can find that agenda here](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2024/12/17-telecon).

Also, you can find the meeting info on the [PAT Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/pat/calendar/).
